---
name: Refactor GHA `${workflow_file}` to use `label-directory.json`
about: Main template for sub-templates
title: "Refactor GHA \`${workflow_file}\` to use `label-directory.json`"
labels: ['Feature: Refactor GHA','Complexity: Large','size: 5pt', 'role: back end/devOps']
milestone: 8
---

### Overview
Currently, the GHA workflow files that add, remove, and change labels on issues identify each label by its name (i.e. the 'labelName') directly. Instead of hard-coding each label name, we want these files to identify each label by a general ID (i.e. 'labelId') so that different HfLA project groups will be able to use the GHA workflows without needing to match the label names used by the Website team.

### Action Items
This issue involves GitHub Actions, and you must set up your environment for testing GHAs in order to work on this issue. See notes below in "Resources/ Instructions", and ask questions if you need additional help- GHAs can be tricky, and if you get stuck somewhere, someone who has worked on these before might have information that will save you a lot of time.    
- [ ] Before making any of the edits following, first create a test branch in your repo and demonstrate the current, correct behavior of the GHA. Afterwards, create an additional branch for the edits following- this is the branch that will be attached to the PR.

Refer to [${workflow_file}](${filepath}). A preliminary search found that this file uses the labels: ${label_list}.
- [ ] As you work through this issue, confirm that this list is correct, and if not note any additions or subtractions.
- [ ] Add to `// Import modules`:  
  ```
  const retrieveLabelDirectory = require('../../utils/retrieve-label-directory');
  ```
- [ ] Add comment:
  ```
  // Use labelIds to retrieve current labelNames from directory
  ```
  then for each label:
  ```
  const <labelId> = retrieveLabelDirectory('<labelId>');
  ```
- [ ] Search the code for instances of the original label name and substitute the <labelId> defined above.
- [ ] Search for all code comments referencing a specific label name and replace with a generalized description.
- [ ] Perform a test in your own repo that demonstrates that there is no change to the GHA's functionality after making the edits.
### Resources/Instructions
- Refer to [Hack for LA's GitHub Actions (current revision)](https://github.com/hackforla/website/issues/6537#issuecomment-2041147335), especially Tips 6, 7, and 8, if you have not already created you personal environment for testing.
- [How to Test GitHub Actions](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/1MPY9CKcfKKN7hpDCG46ARrRzRSM8d8OA)
- [Additional Notes for GitHub Actions](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1frtvr5twBa_3yRGCG0divhlOMW8dPJxT/edit)
- This issue is part of the epic # 6454
